microsoft defender for servers and monitor readme (#1902)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_jumpstart_ag/contoso_supermarket/arc_defender_servers/_index.md

---
type: docs
weight: 100
toc_hide: true
---

# Infrastructure security with Microsoft Defender for Servers

> Microsoft Defender for Cloud provides unified security management and threat protection across your hybrid and multi-cloud workloads. To get all of the Microsoft Defender for Servers protections, you will need to enable the Microsoft Defender for Servers plan at subscription level.

Reviewer: It's too generic. Tell the story of Contoso and why they want to use it

---
type: docs
weight: 100
toc_hide: true
---

# Infrastructure security with Microsoft Defender for Servers

## Overview

> Contoso Supermarket is aware that as they navigate the complex landscape of edge computing, it is essential to protect their servers against threats while maintaining a comprehensive view of their security posture. Microsoft Defender for Servers emerges as a vital component, playing a pivotal role in protecting servers from threats and providing unparalleled visibility into their security landscape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contoso Supermarket are aware that as they navigate the complex landscape of edge computing, it is essential to protect their servers against threats while maintaining a comprehensive view of their security posture. Microsoft Defender for Servers emerges as a vital component, playing a pivotal role in protecting servers from threats and providing unparalleled visibility into their security landscape.
```

I know it might sound like "is" but the context here is Contoso's people, not the actual supermarket.

Microsoft Defender for Servers ensures that Contoso Supermarket's Azure Arc-enabled servers remain resilient against a wide range of cyber threats. With advanced threat protection, machine learning algorithms, and real-time security intelligence, Microsoft Defender for Servers proactively detects and neutralizes potential risks.

On the other hand, maintaining visibility into the security posture of Azure Arc-enabled servers is crucial for Contoso Supermarket. Microsoft Defender for Servers offers comprehensive insights into the servers' security status, providing a centralized view of threats, vulnerabilities, and security events. By analyzing telemetry data, logs, and behavioral patterns, Contoso Supermarket gains a deep understanding of their security landscape, enabling proactive risk mitigation.

> ## Instructions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enable Microsoft Defender for Servers
```

> To protect workloads with Microsoft Defender for Servers, you will need to enable its Servers plan at subscription level. Follow these steps, if it is not already enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To protect workloads with Microsoft Defender for Servers, you will need to enable its "Servers" plan at the Azure subscription level. Follow these steps, if it is not already enabled:
```

> To get all of the Microsoft Defender for Servers protections, you will need to enable the Microsoft Defender for Servers plan at subscription level. Follow these steps to enable the plan in the case it is not already enabled:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To protect workloads with Microsoft Defender for Servers, you will need to enable its Servers plan at subscription level. Follow these steps, if it is not already enabled:
```

- Login to AZ CLI using the ```az login``` command.

- Ensure that you have selected the correct subscription by using the ```az account list --query "[?isDefault]"``` command. If you need to adjust the active subscription used by Az CLI, follow [this guidance](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/manage-azure-subscriptions-azure-cli#change-the-active-subscription).

- Run the following command to check whether Microsoft Defender for Servers is already enabled in your subscription or not:

    ```shell
    az security pricing show -n VirtualMachines
    ```

>     ![Screenshot of checking microsoft defender for servers enabled at subscription level](./img/01.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Screenshot of checking Microsoft Defender for Servers enabled at subscription level](./img/01.png)
```

    > **NOTE: Proceed with the next step if the value you have got for _pricingTier_ is equals to _Free_. If the value was _Standard_, Microsoft Defender for Servers is already enabled and no additional action is required.**

- Run the following command to enable Microsoft Defender for Servers in your subscription:

    ```shell
    az security pricing create -n VirtualMachines --tier 'standard'
    ```

>     ![Screenshot of enabling microsoft defender for servers  at subscription level](./img/02.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Screenshot of enabling Microsoft Defender for Servers at subscription level](./img/02.png)
```

>     > **NOTE: Remember to follow the steps provided in the Cleanup section to disable Microsoft Defender for Servers.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > **NOTE: Remember to follow the steps provided in the Cleanup section to disable Microsoft Defender for Servers, otherwise you may incur additional charges in your subscription.**
```

>     > **NOTE: Remember to follow the steps provided in the Cleanup section to disable Microsoft Defender for Servers, otherwise you may incur additional charges in your subscription.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **NOTE: Remember to follow the steps provided in the Cleanup section at the end of this guide to disable Microsoft Defender for Servers, otherwise you may incur additional charges on your subscription.**
```

## Azure Arc-enabled servers and Microsoft Defender for Servers Integration

> Now that you have successfully enabled Microsoft Defender for Servers, you will get recommendations to help you protect your resources, including your Azure Arc-enabled servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have successfully enabled Microsoft Defender for Servers, you will start getting recommendations to help you protect your resources, including your Azure Arc-enabled servers.
```

> Microsoft Defender for Servers will collect data from your Arc-enabled servers to monitor for security vulnerabilities and threats. The data collection will allow greater visibility into missing updates, non-secure OS settings, endpoint protection status, health and threat protection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft Defender for Servers will collect data from your Arc-enabled servers to monitor for security vulnerabilities and threats. The data collection will allow greater visibility into missing updates, non-secure OS settings, endpoint protection status, health, and threat protection.
```

> >**NOTE: it may take up to 30 minutes for your Azure Arc-enabled server to be shown in Microsoft Defender for Cloud Dashboard**

Reviewer 2: I think this note might be better below the next bullet where there are instructions to find the resource

    ![Screenshot of Microsoft Defender for Cloud Inventory](./img/03.png)

>     > **NOTE: it may take up to 30 minutes for your Azure Arc-enabled server to be shown in Microsoft Defender for Cloud Dashboard**

Reviewer: Any troubleshooting steps if it doesn't?

If so, add a Troubleshooting section as discussed

- Select one of the Azure Arc-enabled servers. Microsoft Defender for Cloud will show the security recommendations:

    ![Screenshot of Microsoft Defender for Cloud Recommendations](./img/04.png)

- Select one of the recommendations. Each recommendation will include:
  - A short description of what is being recommended.
  - Related recommendations.
  - The remediation steps to carry out in order to implement the recommendation. For specific recommendations, you may also get a **_Quick Fix_** that enables you to quickly remediate a recommendation on multiple resources.

    ![Screenshot of Defender recommendation on Azure Arc-enabled server](./img/05.png)

- For this Azure Arc-enabled server the recommendation _Machines should be configured to periodically check for missing system updates_ provides a **_Quick Fix_**. It is using an ARM template to enable a periodic update assessment on the Azure Arc-enabled server.

    ![Screenshot of Defender recommendation Quick Fix ARM template](./img/06.png)

- You can trigger the remediation by clicking on the **_Fix_** button:  

    ![Screenshot of Defender recommendation Fix button](./img/07.png)

> - After you apply the recommendation, it will be now marked as healthy. Note that It can take several minutes after remediation completes to see the resources in the 'healthy resources' tab

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- After you apply the recommendation, it will be now marked as healthy. Note that it can take several minutes after remediation completes to see the resources in the 'healthy resources' tab
```

> - After you apply the recommendation, it will be now marked as healthy. Note that it can take several minutes after remediation completes to see the resources in the 'healthy resources' tab

Author: same as before. I had situations that the recommendation didn't become healthy and we opened a support ticket. Even here is difficult to provide troubleshoot steps since there are different recommendations which are remediated in different ways

    ![Screenshot showing healthy Azure Arc-enabled server](./img/08.png)

## Cleanup

> **NOTE: Proceed with the next steps if Microsoft Defender for Servers in your subscription was set to _Free_.**

- Login to AZ CLI using the ```az login``` command.

> - Ensure that you have selected the correct subscription by using the ```az account list --query "[?isDefault]"``` command. If you need to adjust the active subscription used by Az CLI, follow [this guidance](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/manage-azure-subscriptions-azure-cli#change-the-active-subscription).

Reviewer: I would add an example and a screenshot. It's just one command

    ![Screenshot of Defender recommendation Fix button](./img/recommendation_fixbutton_defender_for_servers.png)

- After you apply the recommendation, it will be now marked as healthy. Note that it can take several minutes after remediation completes to see the resources in the 'healthy resources' tab

    ![Screenshot showing healthy Azure Arc-enabled server](./img/recommendation_healthy_defender_for_servers.png)

## Cleanup

> **NOTE: Proceed with the next steps if Microsoft Defender for Servers in your subscription was set to _Free_.**

- Login to AZ CLI using the ```az login``` command.

- Ensure that you have selected the correct subscription by using the ```az account list --query "[?isDefault]"``` command. If you need to adjust the active subscription used by Az CLI, follow [this guidance](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/manage-azure-subscriptions-azure-cli#change-the-active-subscription).

    ![Screenshot of checking default subscription](./img/check_default_subscription.png)

- Run the following command to disable Microsoft Defender for Servers in your subscription:

    ```shell
    az security pricing create -n VirtualMachines --tier 'free'
    ```

>     ![Disable microsoft defender for servers  at subscription level](./img/disable_defender_for_servers.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ![Disable Microsoft Defender for Servers at the subscription level](./img/disable_defender_for_servers.png)
```
